Add Auth0 to Spring Boot + Vue CRUD post (#1284)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-08-19-build-crud-spring-and-vue.md

image: blog/spring-boot-vue3/spring-boot-vue.jpg
type: conversion
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-boot-vue-crud-example
changelog:
- 2022-08-19: Updated post to use Auth0. Rewrote post to use Quasar for the view. Updated Spring Boot to 3.0.0.
---

> You will use Vue and Spring Boot to build a todo list web application. The application will include CRUD abilities, meaning that you can **c**reate, **r**ead, **u**pdate, and **d**elete the todo items on the Spring Boot API via the client. The Vue frontend client will use the Quasar framework for the presentation. OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) will secure the Spring Boot API and the Vue client using, initially, Okta as the security provider. You will also see how to use Auth0 as the security provider at the end of the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will use Vue and Spring Boot to build a todo list web application. The application will include CRUD abilities, meaning that you can **c**reate, **r**ead, **u**pdate, and **d**elete the todo items on the Spring Boot API via the client. The Vue frontend client will use the Quasar framework for the presentation. OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) will secure the Spring Boot API and the Vue client, initially by using Okta as the security provider. Then, at the end of the tutorial, you will also see how to use Auth0 as the security provider.
```
for a smoother read

`src/App.vue`

{% raw %}

> 

Reviewer 2: I don't think these line breaks are required. Did you add them for any particular reason?

Author: No. You can get rid of them.

The first step is to open the `build.gradle` file for the Spring Boot project and update the dependencies. You have to remove the Okta Spring Boot Starter (as it does not work with Auth0 yet) and add in some Spring Security dependencies that were being included by the Okta starter.

Update the `implementation` dependencies in `build.gradle`.

```gradle
dependencies {
	implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-data-jpa'
	implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-data-rest'
	implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web'
	implementation 'org.springframework.security:spring-security-oauth2-resource-server'
	implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-security'
	implementation 'org.springframework.security:spring-security-config'
	implementation 'org.springframework.security:spring-security-oauth2-jose'

	compileOnly 'org.projectlombok:lombok'
	runtimeOnly 'com.h2database:h2'
	annotationProcessor 'org.projectlombok:lombok'
	testImplementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-test'
}
```

> Create an AudienceValidator class. This will validate JWTs very simply by checking to make sure the audience matches what is loaded from the application properties and passed into the constructor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an `AudienceValidator` class. This will validate JWTs very simply by checking to make sure the audience matches what is loaded from the application properties and passed into the constructor.
```

I'm not sure the AudienceValidator is necessary, is it?

`src/main/java/com/example/demo/AudienceValidator.java`
```java
package com.example.demo;

import org.springframework.security.oauth2.core.OAuth2Error;
import org.springframework.security.oauth2.core.OAuth2TokenValidator;
import org.springframework.security.oauth2.core.OAuth2TokenValidatorResult;
import org.springframework.security.oauth2.jwt.Jwt;

class AudienceValidator implements OAuth2TokenValidator<Jwt> {
    private final String audience;

    AudienceValidator(String audience) {
        this.audience = audience;
    }

    public OAuth2TokenValidatorResult validate(Jwt jwt) {
        OAuth2Error error = new OAuth2Error("invalid_token", "The required audience is missing", null);

        if (jwt.getAudience().contains(audience)) {
            return OAuth2TokenValidatorResult.success();
        }
        return OAuth2TokenValidatorResult.failure(error);
    }
}
```

> You need to add a JWT validator bean to the security configuration class. This uses the AudienceValidator class you added above to validate JWTs. Update the SecurityConfiguration class to the following.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to add a JWT validator bean to the security configuration class. This uses the `AudienceValidator` class you added above to validate JWTs. Update the `SecurityConfiguration` class to the following.
```

`src/main/java/com/example/demo/SecurityConfiguration.java`

```Java
package com.example.demo;

import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Value;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.builders.HttpSecurity;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.configuration.EnableWebSecurity;
import org.springframework.security.oauth2.core.DelegatingOAuth2TokenValidator;
import org.springframework.security.oauth2.core.OAuth2TokenValidator;
import org.springframework.security.oauth2.jwt.*;
import org.springframework.security.web.SecurityFilterChain;

@EnableWebSecurity
@Configuration
public class SecurityConfiguration {

    @Bean
    public SecurityFilterChain filterChain(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
        http.authorizeRequests()
                .anyRequest().authenticated()
                .and()
                .oauth2ResourceServer().jwt();
        return http.build();

>     }
>     @Value("${auth0.audience}")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    }
    
    @Value("${auth0.audience}")
```

Update the `implementation` dependencies in `build.gradle`.

```gradle
dependencies {
	implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-data-jpa'
	implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-data-rest'
	implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web'
	implementation 'org.springframework.security:spring-security-oauth2-resource-server'
	implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-security'
	implementation 'org.springframework.security:spring-security-config'
	implementation 'org.springframework.security:spring-security-oauth2-jose'

	compileOnly 'org.projectlombok:lombok'
	runtimeOnly 'com.h2database:h2'
	annotationProcessor 'org.projectlombok:lombok'
	testImplementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-test'
}
```

Create an `AudienceValidator` class. This will validate JWTs very simply by checking to make sure the audience matches what is loaded from the application properties and passed into the constructor.
`src/main/java/com/example/demo/AudienceValidator.java`

> ```java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```java
```

Reviewer 2: Just added a line break before the code block to break things up a bit.

 ▸    Successfully logged in.
 ▸    Tenant: dev-0xb84jzp.us.auth0.com
```

Take note of the domain listed as the tenet. This is your Auth0 domain. If you need to find it again later, you can use `auth0 tenants list`.

Update`src/main/resources/application.properties`. Fill in your actual Auth0 domain.

```properties
server.port=9000
auth0.audience=http://my-api
spring.security.oauth2.resourceserver.jwt.issuer-uri=https://<your-auth0-domain>/
```

Start the API.

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

Make sure it starts successfully.

```bash
2022-10-06 10:09:59.535  INFO 89160 --- [           main] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat started on port(s): 9000 (http) with context path ''
2022-10-06 10:09:59.541  INFO 89160 --- [           main] com.example.demo.DemoApplication         : Started DemoApplication in 3.014 seconds (JVM running for 3.252)
Todo(id=1, title=Buy milk, completed=false)
Todo(id=2, title=Eat pizza, completed=false)
Todo(id=3, title=Update tutorial, completed=true)
Todo(id=4, title=Study Vue, completed=false)
Todo(id=5, title=Go kayaking, completed=true)
<==========---> 80% EXECUTING [2m 58s]
> :bootRun
```

> Open a second Bash shell in the same directory. Create a test Auth0 API. The Auth0 API is what exposes identity functionality for all authentication and authorization protocols, such as OpenID Connect and OAuth.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open a second terminal window in the same directory. Create a test Auth0 API. The Auth0 API is what exposes identity functionality for all authentication and authorization protocols, such as OpenID Connect and OAuth.
```

```bash
 Scopes: 
 Token Lifetime: 86400
 Allow Offline Access: No

=== dev-0xb84jzp.us.auth0.com API created

  ID                    6323478u98u98919206c2f73e6d  
  NAME                  myapi                     
  IDENTIFIER            http://my-api             
  SCOPES                                          
  TOKEN LIFETIME        86400                     
  ALLOW OFFLINE ACCESS  ✗      
```
Use Auth0 CLI to create a token.  **Don't forget to set the audience!**

```bash
auth0 test token -a http://my-api
```

If you don't use the `-a` flag to set the audience to your Auth0 API, the test token you create will be an opaque token that cannot be verified and will not work. If you decide to use a different Auth0 API for some reason, you need to make sure the audience identifiers match in the `application.properties` file and the command to create a test token.

Save the token in a shell variable.

```bash
TOKEN=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCIsImtpZCI6Im5yMWZw...
```

You can verify that the endpoint is protected.

```bash
http :9000/todos
```

And test the protected endpoint using the token.

```bash
http :9000/todos "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN"
```

> ## Update Vue client to use Auth0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Update the Vue client to use Auth0
```

> Auth0 has [helpful docs](https://auth0.com/docs/quickstart/spa/vuejs/01-login) for integrating with Vue. The first step is to create an OpenID Connect (OIDC) application on the Auth0 servers using their CLI. Open a Bash shell from the `client` project directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Auth0 has [helpful docs](https://auth0.com/docs/quickstart/spa/vuejs/01-login) for integrating with Vue. The first step is to create an OpenID Connect (OIDC) application on the Auth0 servers using their CLI. Open a terminal and navigate to the `client` project directory.
```

```

Notice that the audience is the same as the audience used to create the test token, which is the Auth0 API.

Install the [Auth0 Vue SDK](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-vue).

```bash
npm install @auth0/auth0-vue
```

If you want, you can remove the Okta Vue SDK.

```bash
npm remove @okta/okta-vue
```

Update `src/main.js` to the following. This configures and installs the Auth0 plugin for Vue.

```vue
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import {Quasar} from 'quasar'
import quasarUserOptions from './quasar-user-options'
import VueLogger from 'vuejs3-logger'
import router from './router'
import createApi from './Api'

import { createAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-vue';

const options = {
  isEnabled: true,
  logLevel: 'debug',
  stringifyArguments: false,
  showLogLevel: true,
  showMethodName: false,
  separator: '|',
  showConsoleColors: true
};

const app = createApp(App)
  .use(Quasar, quasarUserOptions)
  .use(VueLogger, options)
  .use(router)
  .use(createAuth0({
    domain: process.env.VUE_APP_AUTH0_DOMAIN,
    client_id: process.env.VUE_APP_CLIENT_ID,
    redirect_uri: window.location.origin,
    audience: process.env.VUE_APP_AUTH0_AUDIENCE
  })
);

> // passing auth0 to the api (to get JWT), which is set as a global property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// pass auth0 to the api (to get a JWT), which is set as a global property
```

        <div v-else>
          <h6>Please <a href="#" @click.prevent="login">log in</a> to access Todo app</h6>
        </div>
      </q-card-section>
    </q-card>
  </div>
</template>

<script>

import { useAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-vue';
import { useRouter } from 'vue-router'

export default {
  name:"HomeComponent",
  setup() {

    const { loginWithRedirect, user, isAuthenticated, logout } = useAuth0();
    const router = useRouter()

    return {
      login: () => {
        loginWithRedirect();
      },
      logout: () => {
        logout({ returnTo: window.location.origin });
      },
      todo() {
        router.push("/todos")
      },
      user,
      isAuthenticated
    };
  }
}
</script>
```

{% endraw %}

Finally, update `src/router/index.js`.

```js
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import Todos from "@/components/Todos";
import Home from "@/components/Home";

const routes = [
  {
    path: '/',
    component: Home
  },
  {
    path: '/todos',
    component: Todos,
    meta: {
      requiresAuth: true
    }
  },
]

const router = createRouter({
  history: createWebHistory(process.env.BASE_URL),
  routes,
})

export default router
```

> The usage of the Auth0 SDK is pretty similar to the Okta Vue SDK. If you have any questions, [take a look at their GitHub repository](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-vue).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The usage of the Auth0 SDK is pretty similar to the Okta Vue SDK. If you have any questions, [take a look at the auth0-vue GitHub repository](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-vue).
```

        http.authorizeRequests()
                .anyRequest().authenticated()
                .and()
                .oauth2ResourceServer().jwt();
        return http.build();
    }
    
    @Value("${auth0.audience}")
    private String audience;

    @Value("${spring.security.oauth2.resourceserver.jwt.issuer-uri}")
    private String issuer;

    @Bean
    JwtDecoder jwtDecoder() {
        NimbusJwtDecoder jwtDecoder = (NimbusJwtDecoder)
                JwtDecoders.fromOidcIssuerLocation(issuer);

        OAuth2TokenValidator<Jwt> audienceValidator = new AudienceValidator(audience);
        OAuth2TokenValidator<Jwt> withIssuer = JwtValidators.createDefaultWithIssuer(issuer);
        OAuth2TokenValidator<Jwt> withAudience = new DelegatingOAuth2TokenValidator<>(withIssuer, audienceValidator);

        jwtDecoder.setJwtValidator(withAudience);

        return jwtDecoder;
    }

}
```

Install the [Auth0 CLI](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli) and run `auth0 login` in a terminal.

```bash
Waiting for the login to complete in the browser... done

 ▸    Successfully logged in.
 ▸    Tenant: dev-0xb84jzp.us.auth0.com
```

> Take note of the domain listed as the tenet. This is your Auth0 domain. If you need to find it again later, you can use `auth0 tenants list`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take note of the domain listed as the tenant. This is your Auth0 domain. If you need to find it again later, you can use `auth0 tenants list`.
```
Should this be 'tenant'? I'm not 100% sure....

```properties
server.port=9000
auth0.audience=http://my-api
spring.security.oauth2.resourceserver.jwt.issuer-uri=https://<your-auth0-domain>/
```

Start the API.

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

Make sure it starts successfully.

```bash
2022-10-06 10:09:59.535  INFO 89160 --- [           main] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat started on port(s): 9000 (http) with context path ''
2022-10-06 10:09:59.541  INFO 89160 --- [           main] com.example.demo.DemoApplication         : Started DemoApplication in 3.014 seconds (JVM running for 3.252)
Todo(id=1, title=Buy milk, completed=false)
Todo(id=2, title=Eat pizza, completed=false)
Todo(id=3, title=Update tutorial, completed=true)
Todo(id=4, title=Study Vue, completed=false)
Todo(id=5, title=Go kayaking, completed=true)
<==========---> 80% EXECUTING [2m 58s]
> :bootRun
```

Open a second terminal window in the same directory. Create a test Auth0 API. The Auth0 API is what exposes identity functionality for all authentication and authorization protocols, such as OpenID Connect and OAuth.

```bash
auth0 apis create -n myapi --identifier http://my-api
```

> Just press enter three times to accept the default values for scopes, token lifetime, and allow offline access. The scopes here refers to custom scopes, not the standard scopes (email, profile, and openid) that you will need for OIDC and OAuth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just press enter three times to accept the default values for scopes, token lifetime, and allow offline access. The scopes here refer to custom scopes, not the standard scopes (email, profile, and openid) that you will need for OIDC and OAuth.
```
nitty edit: verb alignment

        logout({ returnTo: window.location.origin });
      },
      todo() {
        router.push("/todos")
      },
      user,
      isAuthenticated
    };
  }
}
</script>
```

{% endraw %}

Finally, update `src/router/index.js`.

```js
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import Todos from "@/components/Todos";
import Home from "@/components/Home";

const routes = [
  {
    path: '/',
    component: Home
  },
  {
    path: '/todos',
    component: Todos,
    meta: {
      requiresAuth: true
    }
  },
]

const router = createRouter({
  history: createWebHistory(process.env.BASE_URL),
  routes,
})

export default router
```

The usage of the Auth0 SDK is pretty similar to the Okta Vue SDK. If you have any questions, [take a look at the auth0-vue GitHub repository](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-vue).

Make sure your Spring Boot API is still running. Run the client.

```bash
npm run serve
```

This time when you log in you will be directed to Auth0.

{% img blog/spring-boot-vue3/auth0-login.png alt:"Auth0 Login" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

After that, you will be redirected back to the todo app.

## Do more with Spring Boot, Vue, and Okta

> You built a Spring Boot resource server backend and a Vue frontend in this tutorial. The Vue client used the latest Vue 3 version with the Quasar framework. The app included full CRUD (create, read, update, and delete) capabilities. It was all secured using Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You built a Spring Boot resource server backend and a Vue frontend in this tutorial. The Vue client used the latest Vue 3 version with the Quasar framework. The app included full CRUD (create, read, update, and delete) capabilities. It was all secured first using Okta, and then, a second time, via Auth0.
```
for clarity
